>> Kyle Simpson: With those as our
foundation, those abstract operations as
our foundation it is now time for us to
switch gears and really topic of coercion.
And by the way as I said at the out set,
this is going to require for
you to get anything out of what I'm about
to say over this next bit it's gonna
require you to have an open mind.
Because you have been so programmed
to believe that this is an evil buggy
horrible part of JavaScript
that you should avoid,
that it's hard to see any value or
merit out of this discussion.
But I make it such a point of put
it in the very top of this course
because I think it's one of
the most under valued and
under looked that things
in all of JavaScript.
So to start off with I know most
of you follow that behavior and
that advice that says,
no I just avoid coercions.
I just use the triple equals,
I don't deal with types, not so much.
Let's look at some examples where
you're already doing coercion
whether you realize it or not.
Any of you use the ES6 as of a few years
ago, the template-literal strings?
Yeah.
I certainly use these all over the place.
This is one of those slow burns.
Cuz when it first came out, I didn't
really care about this feature, and
now I love this feature.
Might be on my top three
favorite features.
I use it all the time,
especially in my colsole.log statements.
I just use it everywhere and
I love template strings.
And if you drop in values
into those expressions,
that aren't already strings,
probably, like all of you.
Guess, what's happening there?
That number is getting coers to a string,
implicitly, evil,
you're already doing coercion,
all of you, period.
No matter what Doug Crawford said,
you're doing coercion,
you're relying upon
coercion in your programs.
And that's not a bad thing,
that's a perfectly great thing.
But under the covers, you should have
the mental model that what's happening
here is I'm taking a string,
msg1, and adding it to a number.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now,
why is that end up producing a coercion?
Well, it's actually invoking
another a little magical
thing that programmers love to do which
is we've got operator overloading.
The plus operator is normally thought
of is doing numerical operation.
Thought?
The spec says that if you use the plus
operator with something that's a string,
and here's an example that lot
of you have probably done.
Add an empty string to a thing
to turn it into a number.
Did you ever stop to
wonder how that worked?
Well, it's because the specs
says that the plus operator.
If either one of them is a string, notice
that or there, if either one of them is
a string, the plus operator
prefers string concatenation.
>> Kyle Simpson: Which means,
if only one of them is a string,
guess what's gonna
happen to the other one?
A two-string operation right there on 7.a.
It's gonna call a two string
abstract operation on it, and
turn it in to a string with all of
the weirdnesses in caveats there of.
When it's a well formed number,
like the number 16, not such a big deal.
But there's lots of corner
cases on numbers, and
lots of corner cases on other values, and
you're just invoking these things happily,
and not worrying at all,
about the fact that you're using coercion.
No, I'm not here to tell you to stop
using coercion, I'm here to tell you
you're using coercion, so wouldn't
it make sense for you to learn it?
That's why we dive into this, okay?
So, you may say, well, listen, I don't
like to do those implicit coercions,
I wanna be super explicit about it.
Okay, so, here's some crazy ways
that you can be explicit about it,
I just learned this one the other day.
I never even considered that you
could throw a value into an array,
just the one value into an array,
and then call dot join on it.
And that actually ends up string it even
though it does no string concatenation at
all, the spec for
that join first turns it into a string.
Don't do this that's a terrible idea, but
you could if you wanna be super explicit
about, you could say listen,
I'm only doing string concatenations here.
So I'm gonna be explicit about
turning my number into a string.
Here's some other ones that
are maybe a little more well formed.
You might, for example,
call the toString method.
Okay, cool, the toString method at least
on the label says what it's doing.
It's gonna turn a number into a string so
that's not too bad.
There's a little weirdness here which
is how are you calling a method on
a primitive value?
Primitive values don't have methods.
So you're actually already still
doing implicit coercion here and
we'll come back to that.
If you don't wanna do any
implicit coercion at all,
basically your only option.
Is to use that fundamental object
without a new keyword string,
and this is my preferred way of explicitly
coercing that number to a string,
the capital S string function
is gonna do that for you.
So, if you're one of those that says hey,
listen, all those implicit things,
those are magical and
we don't wanna do them, and
you wanna be explicit about it, there's
an example of being explicit about it.
I'm not so sure that that's a great idea
in all cases, but
that's at least a way of being explicit.
All right, all right, all right, so
string to, number to string all right, but
what about the other way around?
[LAUGH] You're already doing that too.
Because all of you are dealing
with web applications, or
at least most of you are dealing
with web applications which means
you're dealing with user input
from things like form elements.
Which means you're grabbing
things as strings, and
then you're just doing
numeric stuff with them.
When you throw that string value at
the plus operation, like I'm doing here,
guess what happens?
Oops, we get a string concatenation.
Instead of getting 17,
we get the string 161.
But okay, okay, I'll go ahead and
force it to be a number.
Okay, there's two ways of forcing it to
be a number one, this plus operator here.
The unary plus operator,
if you'll look in the spec for it.
Guess what it invokes which abstract
operation when we expect that turns out
that the two number abstract operation,
okay?
Just making sure you're all the way, okay?
It invokes the two number operation,
that's all it does.
So here we're saying take that thing
that's a string or whatever it is, and
turn it into a number
before we pass it in.
If it's a well-formed numeric
representation in string form, for
example, you're gonna end up
with good results here, like 17.
If it's empty,
guess what you're gonna end up with?
>> Kyle Simpson: What's
the empty string gonna become?
Zero, it may not be what you want but
it's gonna happen.
So here's another example this kind of
coercion happens all over the place.
And my biggest frustration is that people
don't deal with it and then just sort of
slap a name badge on this is all I don't
have to worry about types and coercion.
I'm good it's this,
this is where bugs come from.
Using tools that you don't
understand how they work.
Okay, so let me be more specific about it,
even in the plus operator,
cuz it might look a little weird.
You can use the fundamental
number function, okay.
This is my preferred way.
If I'm gonna turn something into a number,
I use the number function.
We don't have a two number, so this is
basically the most semantic way of telling
the reader of code that you're gonna
make a number out of something.
>> Kyle Simpson: If you use
a minus operator for example,
if any of you get too sarcastic
with me I'm gonna kick you up.
If you use the minus operator that
one is only defined for numbers.
That it's not overloaded for
string, it wouldn't make any sense
to subtract one string from another.
So that minus operator up there,
is gonna do what?
>> Kyle Simpson: Come on?
Two number, okay?
It's gonna invoke that two
number abstract operation.
These are all things that are happening in
your programs in various different ways.
And I think it would be a good idea for
us to call these things out and
be a lot more aware of incognito
of it intentionally about.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, okay, okay, strings
and numbers are always work things but you
know what I never do, because I never mess
around with coercion my Boolean, right?
Cuz I never write if statements that
use non-Booleans in the if class.
Any of you use like checking to
see if a string is non-empty
to see whether it's truthy or not?
Extremely common practice,
guess what that's called coercion.
Okay, and guess what?
All of the weird corner cases of
coercion Booleans are in a fact,
even with your little simple if
statements they're in a fact.
Matter of fact, I would say there
are more corner cases with boolean,
maybe than any other premier of type or
kinds of wearnesses that we're gonna get
into here as we go So that empty string,
if students input that value as an empty
that's gonna be falsy, alright?
But what if that string has just
a bunch of white space in it?
Now it's gonna be truthy, right?
It's not a valid string
that you care about because
it's got a bunch of white space in it but
all of a sudden it's going to be truthy.
Corner cases even with our Boolean.
Another favorite one, people love to
use the numeric coercion of a number
to either a zero or a non zero for
truthy or falsy, right?
So if my length is zero
then it becomes false and
if my length is anything non
zero then it becomes true.
Because it's not one of the zeros,
will have to rely up on that.
Except what happens when it's NaN.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, there's all kinds
of corner cases in all of these coercions.
So if you're in the habit
of using some of these and
not using others, I mean I hate to call
this out but it sort of hypocritical
to say, I used this form or magic but
I don't like that form of magic.
I don't know if we should
use the magic at all,
I think we should learn it, use it,
and then it's not magical at all.
Once you learn it,
you're doing something intentional,
and you're communicating
your intent to other people.
That does not mean that
implicitness is always bad.
As a matter of fact,
implicitness can be very useful.
It just simply means we have to
be very careful and intentional.
So you might say well I like to turn
all of mine into explicit booleans.
So you might use that.
Double negate up there on line one.
Tha's telling it, become a boolean.
I don't have it on this slide, but
you could also use the fundamental
capital B Boolean.
That's what I prefer to do.
Just like straying a number,
I prefer to use capital B Boolean.
But with numbers, it's better instead
of relying upon that numeric coercion,
use something like greater than zero,
if that's what you mean.
Not only does it protect you from some
of those corner cases, not all but some.
It protects you from some of those corner
cases but it is also more semantic.
Because you are saying here, keep looping
while the length is greater than zero,
instead of keep looping
while the length is truthy.
What does that even mean?
So don't be clever just to
save a couple of characters,
be more explicit about it in the places
where explicitness is more communicative.
>> Kyle Simpson: We already
covered some of this.
I jumped ahead in my slides.
But the Boolean of
an empty string is false.
The Boolean of a non-empty string is true,
and that's certainly gonna be a gotcha.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
the Boolean tests for undefined and null,
we know that both of
those are on the list.
I like to treat null and
undefined as indistinguishable values.
Wherever possible.
It's not always possible to
treat them as indistinguishable.
But where possible, I like to do so, and
cohesion actually is very helpful for
that.
But with respect to Boolean since we know
that they're both forcy, if the test that
we're asking for is has this thing
been set or not, which we do often.
Is this thing been set on object or
is it still onset.
All right, for me,
that's a perfectly reasonable
in placing Boolean coercion
that I'm okay with.
I don't like to impose the coerce and
empty strain the false and
not empty strain the true.
I don't like to impose the coerce
numbers to true or false but
I am perfectly happy with either
saying it's no or undefined,
meaning it's unsaid, and that's falsely or
it's been set to something like an object.
And then it's tricky and
I use that all the all over the place.
So in my particular opinion,
I think it's okay,
to use the implicit to Boolean coercion
when we're specifically talking about
either an object or
null undefined that decision making.
But the numbers and the strings,
since they have so many corner cases,
I don't think that that implicit
coercion carries its own weight.
>> Kyle Simpson: I'm less trying to be
prescriptive here about exactly how you
should do it, and more trying to
get you to think like JavaScript.
And make your own determinations for
where do I draw these lines.